naming: Update metric and label name restrictions and recommendations with the latest context (#2626)
prometheus/docs: content/docs/concepts/data_model.md

***Metric names:***

* Metric names SHOULD specify the general feature of a system that is measured (e.g. `http_requests_total` - the total number of HTTP requests received). 
* Metric names MAY use any UTF-8 characters.

> * Metric names SHOULD match the regex `[a-zA-Z_:][a-zA-Z0-9_:]*` for the best experience and compatibility (see the warning below). Metric names outside of that set will require escaping e.g. when used in PromQL (see the [UTF-8 guide](../guides/utf8.md#querying)).

Reviewer: escaping → quoting

(I would say escaping is technically incorrect.)

> NOTE: The colons are reserved for user defined recording rules. They should not be used by exporters or direct instrumentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: The colons are reserved for user defined recording rules. They SHOULD not be used by exporters or direct instrumentation.
```

Reviewer: In fact SHOULD NOT.

***Metric labels:***

> Labels enable Prometheus's dimensional data model to identify any given combination of labels for the same metric name. It identifies a particular dimensional instantiation of that metric (for example: all HTTP requests that used the method `POST` to the `/api/tracks` handler). The query language allows filtering and aggregation based on these dimensions. The change of any label's value, including adding or removing labels, will create a new time series.

Reviewer 3: Long words, hard to read.
```suggestion
Labels let you capture different instances of the same metric name. For example: all HTTP requests that used the method `POST` to the `/api/tracks` handler. We refer to this as Prometheus's "dimensional data model". The query language allows filtering and aggregation based on these dimensions. The change of any label's value, including adding or removing labels, will create a new time series.
```

* Label names MAY use any UTF-8 characters. 

> * Label names beginning with `__` (two "_") MUST be reserved for internal Prometheus use.

Reviewer: Or maybe even

```suggestion
* Label names beginning with `__` (two underscores) MUST be reserved for internal Prometheus use.
```

> * Label names SHOULD match the regex `[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_]*` for the best experience and compatibility (see the warning below). Label names outside of that regex will require escaping e.g. when used in PromQL (see the [UTF-8 guide](../guides/utf8.md#querying)).

Reviewer: escaping → quoting, as above.

* Label values MAY contain any UTF-8 characters.
* Labels with an empty label value are considered equivalent to labels that do not exist.

> WARNING: The [UTF-8](../guides/utf8.md) support for metric and label names was added relatively recently in Prometheus v3.0.0. It might take time for the wider ecosystem (downstream PromQL compatible projects and vendors, tooling, 3P instrumentation, collectors, etc.) to adopt new escaping mechanisms, relaxed validation etc. For the best compatibility it's recommended to stick to the recommended ("SHOULD") character set.

Reviewer: 3P → third-party

(Assuming that's what you mean…)

Author: sorry, Google jargon 👍🏽

    api_http_requests_total{method="POST", handler="/messages"}

This is the same notation that [OpenTSDB](http://opentsdb.net/) uses.

> Names with the UTF-8 characters outside the recommended set must be escaped, using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Names with UTF-8 characters outside the recommended set must be quoted, using
```

For completion you could also mention that quotes within the quotes must be escaped (e.g. `{"my metric name \"with quotes\""}`).

This also demonstrates the difference between escaping and quoting.

Author: Nice! Thanks, applying, but I would vote to keep it simple and not mention escaping quoting - hopefully not very common problem.

this notation:

    {"<metric name>", <label name>="<label value>", ...}

> Since an internal representation of a metric name is in a form of a label pair

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since metric name are internally represented as a label pair
```
